REFERENCE
GUIDE FOR ALL
ACCOUNTABLE
INSTITUTIONS

Contents
1. INTRODUCTION ............................................................................................................ 4
2. WHAT IS THE FINANCIAL INTELLIGENCE CENTRE? ............................................... 4
3. WHAT IS MONEY LAUNDERING, TERRORIST FINANCING AND PROLIFERATION
FINANCING? ................................................................................................................. 4
4. WHAT AMENDMENTS HAVE BEEN MADE TO THE SCHEDULES TO THE FIC
ACT?.............................................................................................................................. 5
5. WHAT ARE THE OBLIGATIONS FOR ACCOUNTABLE INSTITUTIONS? ................. 6
6. HOW DO ACCOUNTABLE INSTITUTIONS REGISTER WITH THE CENTRE? .......... 6
7. WHAT IS A RISK-BASED APPROACH ........................................................................ 8
8. WHAT IS A RISK MANAGEMENT AND COMPLIANCE PROGRAMME ..................... 8
9. WHAT IS CUSTOMER DUE DILIGENCE? ................................................................... 8
10. HOW DO ACCOUNTABLE INSTITUTIONS DETERMINE WHETHER CLIENTS ARE
POLITICALLY EXPOSED PERSONS? ......................................................................... 9
11. WHAT ARE TARGETED FINANCIAL SANCTIONS? ................................................... 9
12. WHAT IS TRANSACTION MONITORING ................................................................... 10
13. WHAT REGULATORY REPORTS NEED TO BE SUBMITTED TO THE CENTRE .... 10
14. WHAT ARE THE ASPECTS RELATED TO RECORD-KEEPING .............................. 11
15. WHAT TRAINING OF EMPLOYEES DO ACCOUNTABLE INSTITUTIONS NEED TO
IMPLEMENT ................................................................................................................ 11
16. WHAT IS THE COMPLIANCE FUNCTION FOR ACCOUNTABLE INSTITUTIONS? 12
17. CAN ACCOUNTABLE INSTITUTIONS OUTSOURCE THEIR OBLIGATIONS? ....... 12
18. WHAT SOURCES OF INFORMATION CAN ACCOUNTABLE INSTITUTIONS USE?
12
Directives issued by the Centre ................................................................................... 13
Guidance issued by the Centre ................................................................................... 14
Risk assessments conducted by the Centre .............................................................. 21
Case studies .................................................................................................................. 24
Scams awareness ......................................................................................................... 24
Financial Action Task Force Guidance ...................................................................... 24
19. COMMUNICATION WITH THE CENTRE .................................................................... 25
Table 1: Schedule item guidance ......................................................................................... 6
Table 2: Directives issued by the Centre ............................................................................ 13
Table 3: Guidance Notes issued by the Centre .................................................................. 15
Reference Guide for all accountable institutions
Page 2 of 25

Table 4: Guidance Notes issued by the Centre .................................................................. 21
Table 5: Sector risk assessments issued by the Centre ..................................................... 22
Table 6: Summary of sections, regulations and associated guidance ................................ 23
Figure 1: Compliance obligations in terms of the FIC Act ..................................................... 6
Reference Guide for all accountable institutions
Page 3 of 25

1. INTRODUCTION
The Financial Intelligence Centre (the Centre) has issued this reference guide to assist
all new, and existing accountable institutions. This guide provides an overview of who
the Centre is, what the Financial Intelligence Centre Act, 2001 (Act 38 of 2001) (the
FIC Act) requires from accountable institutions (in the form of FIC Act compliance
obligations) and directs accountable institutions to the range of issued guidance
material that is available. Accountable institutions are strongly encouraged to view all
material through the links provided in this document as it provides valuable information
that can aid in effective compliance with the FIC Act.
2. WHAT IS THE FINANCIAL INTELLIGENCE CENTRE?
The FIC Act was enacted in 2001, which directed the establishment of the Centre. The
Centre was subsequently established in 2003 as the national centre for the gathering
and analysis of financial data. The Centre’s primary role is to contribute to safeguarding
the integrity of South Africa’s financial system and its institutions, and to make them
intolerant to money laundering, terrorist financing and proliferation financing abuse,
which directly underpins the integrity and stability of the financial sector. The Centre is
the South Africa’s financial intelligence unit.
3. WHAT IS MONEY LAUNDERING, TERRORIST FINANCING AND
PROLIFERATION FINANCING?
• Money laundering is the process that criminals use to launder their funds so that the
proceeds they have acquired from illicit (illegal) activities appear to be legitimate.
• Terrorist financing is the process of funding terrorists, terrorist acts or terrorist
organisations .
• Proliferation financing is where individuals, entities, countries or governments raise
funds in order to assist with their purchasing of weapons of mass destruction.
Reference Guide for all accountable institutions
Page 4 of 25

The FIC Act lists institutions which are deemed to be vulnerable to being abused by
criminals for money laundering, terrorist financing or proliferation financing purposes.
4. WHAT AMENDMENTS HAVE BEEN MADE TO THE SCHEDULES TO THE FIC
ACT?
Schedule 1 to the FIC Act has been amended, whereby additional items, called
accountable institutions, have been included to bring in new categories of businesses.
Certain items have been amended to either widen current items or cater for technical
amendments. All reporting institutions listed in Schedule 3 of the FIC Act have been
deleted. The detailed list of Schedules amendments can be found here.
Where appropriate, guidance has been published to provide further information on
specific items. Listed below lists is guidance that has been issued regarding the
amended items. All guidance is available on the FIC website, www.fic.gov.za.
Item Description Guidance explaining the definition
& risk indicators
Item 1 Legal practitioners Draft PCC 47A
Item 2 Trust and company service providers Draft PCC 6A
Item 4 Authorised user of an exchange
Item 7A Co-operative banks
Item 8 Life insurers
Item 11 Credit providers Draft PCC 23A
Item 12 Financial services providers
Item 16 Ithala Development Finance
Corporation* deleted (will now fall
under item 11 of credit providers)
Item 19 Money or value transfer provider Draft PCC 118
Item 20 High-value goods dealers Draft PCC 119
Item 21 South African Mint Company (RF) Pty
Limited
Reference Guide for all accountable institutions
Page 5 of 25

Item 22 Crypto asset service providers Draft PCC 120
Item 23 Clearing system participants
Table 1: Schedule item guidance
5. WHAT ARE THE OBLIGATIONS FOR ACCOUNTABLE INSTITUTIONS?
Accountable institutions are subject to certain obligations in terms of the FIC Act:
Figure 1: Compliance obligations of accountable institutions in terms of the FIC Act
6. HOW DO ACCOUNTABLE INSTITUTIONS REGISTER WITH THE CENTRE?
Before any accountable institution can submit a regulatory report to the Centre, they
must register with the Centre via its reporting and registration system. Registration is
free and must be completed via the Centre’s online registration and reporting system
called goAML, which is accessible via the website www.fic.gov.za. For further
Reference Guide for all accountable institutions
Page 6 of 25

guidance on how to register refer to the goAML User Guide and public compliance
communication (PCC) 5D.
There are three simple steps to registering with the Financial Intelligence Centre:
Step 1 – Access the platform: Go to the Centre’s website www.fic.gov.za, click on
o
“click here to report or register” which will give the user access the goAML platform
Step 2 – Register the entity: Register the entity, and receive an ORG ID
o
(organisation identity) number
Step 3 – Register the compliance officer: The accountable institution’s compliance
o
officer must use the ORG ID number received to register as a user against the entity
profile. The compliance officer MUST be the first person to register.
• This is practically done by:
Capturing ALL information correctly and attaching the correct documents
o
Complete all necessary fields on the goAML system (both for the organisation and
user) and make sure to attach the following -
A certified copy of an identity document/passport of the compliance officer;
o
and
A signed authorisation letter from the entity when registering
o
 Must be on the letterhead of the entity; and
 Must contain the username and surname; and
 Identity or passport number, occupation of the user; and
 The role of the user to be allocated on the system.
• Bear in mind:
Wait for the registration to first be approved by the Centre
o
Once the registration form has been submitted electronically via the system, a
registration reference number (SHREG number), will be provided. The reference
number must be used for any registration related enquiries.
Confirmation of registration will be sent after approval
o
Reference Guide for all accountable institutions
Page 7 of 25

The compliance officer will receive an e-mail from the Centre confirming the approval
or rejection of the registration and will confirm the entity’s Org ID number.
7. WHAT IS A RISK-BASED APPROACH
Accountable institutions must implement a risk-based approach (RBA) to combating
money laundering, terrorist financing and proliferation financing (ML, TF and PF.) An
RBA entails implementing controls that are proportionate to the level of ML, TF and
PF risk identified. Accountable institutions must conduct risk assessments on a
business level, client level and on in regard to new products and processes.
Guidance Note 7 and public compliance communication (PCC) 53 sets out
guidance on a risk-based approach.
8. WHAT IS A RISK MANAGEMENT AND COMPLIANCE PROGRAMME
Accountable institutions must develop, document, maintain and implement a risk
management and compliance programme (RMCP.) An RMCP should be unique to
the accountable institution. Section 42 of the FIC Act sets out what controls must be
contained in the RMCP. The RMCP must be easily accessible upon request of the
supervisory body or an employee of the accountable institution.
For further guidance on how to develop and document an RMCP refer to Guidance
Note 7 and PCC 53.
9. WHAT IS CUSTOMER DUE DILIGENCE?
In order to combat ML, TF and PF all accountable institutions must identify and verify
their clients. Customer due diligence (CDD) refers to the knowledge that an
accountable institution has about its clients and the institution’s understanding of the
Reference Guide for all accountable institutions
Page 8 of 25

business that the client is conducting with it. The level of identification and verification
must be determined in line with the client’s risk profile.
For further guidance on how to conduct CDD refer to Guidance Note 7.
10. HOW DO ACCOUNTABLE INSTITUTIONS DETERMINE WHETHER CLIENTS
ARE POLITICALLY EXPOSED PERSONS1?
Accountable institutions are required to determine whether their client is a foreign
prominent public official (FPPO) or domestic prominent influential person (DPIP.)
Various methods may be used to determine these categories of persons, and often
the client themselves is a source in this regard.
For further guidance on DPIPs and FPPOs, refer to PCC 51.
11. WHAT ARE TARGETED FINANCIAL SANCTIONS?
Section 28A of the FIC Act requires all accountable institutions to scrutinise client
information to identify designated persons or entities who are listed on the:
• Targeted financial sanction (TFS) list as published in terms of section 26A of
the FIC Act, which is found on the FIC website, and
• TFS list as published in terms of section 25 of Protection of Constitutional
Democracy Against Terrorist and Related Activities Act, 2004 (Act 33 of 2004)
(POCDATARA Act) which is found on the United Nations Security Council
website.
This requirement is not risk-based and must be applied to all prospective clients
regardless of risk. Accountable institutions must not provide products or services to
designated persons or entities.
For further guidance on South Africa’s TFS regime, refer to PCC 44 and PCC 54.
1 Politically exposed persons or PEPs is a term used to describe foreign prominent public officials and
domestic prominent influential persons
Reference Guide for all accountable institutions
Page 9 of 25

12. WHAT IS TRANSACTION MONITORING
Accountable institutions must scrutinise single transactions and transactions
undertaken throughout the course of the business relationship with the client, to
determine whether the transactions are aligned to the accountable institution’s
knowledge of the client and the client’s business within the context of the clients ML,
TF and PF risk profile. Transaction monitoring is aimed at identifying suspicious and
unusual transactions and large cash payments.
For further guidance on transactional monitoring, refer to Guidance Note 7,
Directive 5 and PCC 45 which discusses the use of an automated transaction
monitoring system.
13. WHAT REGULATORY REPORTS NEED TO BE SUBMITTED TO THE CENTRE
Accountable institutions must report to the Centre. There are three main regulatory
reporting obligations for accountable institutions:
• Cash threshold reports (cash received or issued exceeding R49 999.99). The
threshold has recently been increased by an amendment to the Regulations to the
FIC Act.
• Suspicious and unusual transaction reports – where the reporter suspects that
a transaction or activity involves money laundering, terrorist financing or a
contravention of financial sanctions.
• Terrorist property reports – where an accountable institution has in its
possession property of a designated person.
Accountable Institutions are required to submit regulatory reports electronically via the
goAML system. If a regulatory report is rejected, it must be remediated by the
accountable institution.
Reference Guide for all accountable institutions
Page 10 of 25

Refer to:
Guidance Note 5C and the CTR reporting user guide.
Guidance Note 4B and the STR reporting user guide
Guidance Note 6A and the TPR reporting user guide.
PCC 50 and the User Guide on Remediation of rejected Reports on how to
remediate
14. WHAT ARE THE ASPECTS RELATED TO RECORD-KEEPING
Accountable institutions must keep records of client identification and verification
information for a period of five years from the termination of the business relationship,
transactional information for a period of 5 years from the date a transaction is
concluded, and regulatory reports submitted to the Centre for the period 5 years from
submitting a transaction or activity report contemplated in section 29 of the FIC Act.
Refer to section 23 of the FIC Act. Records may be kept in electronic form.
Regardless of the manner in which records are kept, accountable institutions must
ensure that the following principles are applied:
• The accountable institution must have free and easy access to the relevant records.
• The records must be readily available to the Centre and the relevant supervisory
body when required.
• The records must be capable of being reproduced in a legible format and
• If the records are stored off-site, the Centre and the relevant supervisory body must
be provided with the details of the third party storing the records.
15. WHAT TRAINING OF EMPLOYEES DO ACCOUNTABLE INSTITUTIONS NEED
TO IMPLEMENT
The FIC Act does not specify the format of the required training, but it is the Centre’s
view that training provided by the accountable institution should enable its employees
to comply with the provisions of the FIC Act and the accountable institution’s RMCP.
Reference Guide for all accountable institutions
Page 11 of 25

16. WHAT IS THE COMPLIANCE FUNCTION FOR ACCOUNTABLE INSTITUTIONS?
The accountable institution must have a compliance function to assist the board of
directors or the senior management of the accountable institution in discharging their
obligations and assign a person with sufficient competence and seniority to ensure
the effectiveness of the compliance function contemplated above.
Refer to Draft Directive 6 and Draft PCC 116 which details the obligation relating to
employee screening.
17. CAN ACCOUNTABLE INSTITUTIONS OUTSOURCE THEIR OBLIGATIONS?
Accountable institutions remain responsible for their compliance obligations in terms
of the FIC Act. They may, however, seek assistance in certain instances but cannot
share passwords or information relating to suspicious and unusual transaction
reports.
For further information on outsourcing of compliance obligation to third parties
service providers refer to PCC 12A
18. WHAT SOURCES OF INFORMATION CAN ACCOUNTABLE INSTITUTIONS
USE?
Financial Intelligence Centre Act, 2001 (Act 38 of 2001) (FIC Act)
The FIC Act is the prevailing legislation for anti-money laundering and counter terrorist
financing in South Africa. All obligations that accountable institutions must adhere to,
are contained in the FIC Act.
Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Control Regulations
Reference Guide for all accountable institutions
Page 12 of 25

The Regulations should be read alongside the FIC Act, as they provide prescribed
information that is not specified in the FIC Act.
Other legislation forming part of the anti-money laundering and counter
terrorist financing or terrorism regime
The FIC Act works in conjunction with the Prevention of Organised Crime Act, 1998
(Act 121 of 1998) (POCA.) which criminalises the act of money laundering and other
offenses.
ThePOCDATARA Act criminalises the offence of terrorist financing, and other
offences involving terrorist acts and similar offences.
Directives issued by the Centre
The Centre has issued seven Directives:
Number Topic Link to access
Directive 1 Updating of registration information of Link
accountable and reporting institutions
Directive 2 Use of login credentials following Link
registration with the Centre
Directive 3 Notification of failure to report as required by Link
the FIC Act
Directive 4 Notification to Accountable Institutions Link
registered prior to 7 March 2016 to update
their registration details on goAML
Directive 5 Prescribe the requirements for the usage of Link
an automated transaction monitoring
system (ATMS) for the detection and
submission of regulatory reports to the
Centre
Draft Requires accountable institutions to screen Link
Directive 6 employees
Directive 7 The risk and compliance return Link
Table 2: Directives issued by the Centre
Reference Guide for all accountable institutions
Page 13 of 25

Guidance issued by the Centre
The Centre issues guidance to the public onits statutory function in terms of section 4(c)
of the FIC Act read together with Regulation 28 of the Money Laundering and Terrorist
Financing Control Regulations issued in terms of the FIC Act. The different types of
guidance include, but are not limited to:
• Guidance notes
• Public compliance communications (PCCs)
• User guides
• Webinars.
All guidance notes, PCCs, user guides and notices are available on the Centre’s website.
Reference Guide for all accountable institutions
Page 14 of 25

Below are the active guidance products that can be consulted for further assistance. Also shown are guidance products that have been
withdrawn and the products that have replaced them.
Guidance Note Topic Link to access
Guidance Note 1 Guidance concerning identification of clients Replaced by Guidance Note 7
(30 April 2004)
Guidance Note 2 Guidance to financial services industries regulated by the Financial Replaced by Guidance Note 7
(18 June 2004)
Services Board concerning the meaning of the word “transaction”
Guidance Note 3 Guidance to banks on customer identification and verification and Replaced by Guidance Note 7
(GN 27803; 18 July 2005)
related matters
Guidance Note 4B Guidance on suspicious transaction reporting Link
(26 March 2019)
Guidance Note 5C Guidance on Cash Threshold Reporting Link
(21 October 2022)
Guidance Note 6A Guidance on terrorist property reporting Link
(27 March 2019)
Guidance Note 7 Implementation of the FIC Act Link
(2 October 2017)
Draft Guidance note 7A Chapter 4: Updates to RMCP In consultation, Link
(30 September 2022)
Table 3 Guidance Notes issued by the Centre

The below table lists all PCCs issued by the Centre
Number Topic Link to access
PCC01 Establishment of the PCC series Link
PCC02 Period for record-keeping of matters reported to the Centre Replaced with Guidance Note 7
Revised Supplementary information applicable to PCC03 electronic verification Replaced with Guidance Note 7
PCC03A systems of asylum seeker and refugee permits
PCC04 Obligations arising from the FIC Act pertaining to the voluntary Withdrawn
disclosure programme
PCC05C Registration with the Centre by accountable and reporting institutions Link
and acquisition of login credentials by any other business with a
(9 May 2018)
reporting obligation under the FIC Act
PCC06 Clarity on Item 2 of Schedule 1 of the FIC Act
Revised The definition of a motor vehicle dealer for the purposes of Schedule 3
PCC07 of the FIC Act
PCC08 Duties of estate agents including provisions of exemption 11 in terms Replaced with Guidance Note 7
of the FIC Act
PCC09 Identification and verification of loyalty programme members in the Replaced with Guidance Note 7
casino industry in terms of the FIC Act.
PCC10 The client of an estate agent Replaced with Guidance Note 7
PCC11 The closing of a client’s account by an accountable institution amounts Replaced with Guidance Note 7
to a transaction in terms of the FIC Act.
PCC12 Outsourcing of compliance activities to third parties Link
Reference Guide for all accountable institutions
Page 16 of 25

Number Topic Link to access
PCC12A Outsourcing of compliance activities to third parties
PCC13 Scope of item 12, Schedule 1 to the FIC Act. Link
PCC14 Client identification and verification requirements when a person acts Replaced with Guidance Note 7
on the authority of another.
PCC15 The acceptance of a smart card document issued by the department of Replaced with Guidance Note 7
Home Affairs for client identification and verification purposes.
PCC16 Interpretation of the term “readily available information” for the Replaced with Guidance Note 5C
purposes of cash threshold reporting in terms of the FIC Act.
PCC17 Definition of Kruger rand dealer for purposes of the FIC Act. Link, to be withdrawn
PCC18 Training and appointment of a compliance officer by accountable Replaced with Guidance Note 7
institutions in terms of Section 43 of the FIC Act.
PCC19 Formulation and implementation of internal rules for different Replaced with Guidance Note 7
accountable institutions within a complex group structure.
Revised Client identification and verification requirements for non-face-to-face Replaced with Guidance Note 7
PCC20 transactions online betting transactions.
PCC21 Scope and application of exemption 17 in terms of the FIC Act. Replaced with Guidance Note 7
PCC22 Client identification and verification requirements in relation to Replaced with PCC 22A
international or foreign data protection laws
PCC23 The scope and meaning of Item 11 of Schedule 1 to the FIC Act. Link
Revised Verification requirements of South African companies and close Replaced with Guidance Note 7
PCC24 corporations in terms of the FIC Act.
Reference Guide for all accountable institutions
Page 17 of 25

Number Topic Link to access
PCC25 Scope of Item 12 to the FIC Act Link
PCC26 Single client view Replaced with Guidance Note 7
PCC27 Status of expired documents relating to client identification and Replaced with Guidance Note 7
verification requirements for asylum seeker and refugees in terms of
the FIC Act.
PCC28 Terrorist property reporting obligations for accountable institutions. Replaced with Guidance Note 6A
PCC29 Clarity on the application and use of exemption 4 Replaced with Guidance Note 7
PCC30 Customer identification and verification of casino junket agents and Link
their underlying clients in terms of the FIC Act.
PCC31A The acceptance of funds by an accountable institution prior to the Link
completion of the prescribed client identification and verification
requirements.
PCC32 The scope of cross-border remittance exemption to the FIC Act Replaced with Guidance Note 7
PCC33 Use of the Department of Home Affairs HANIS verification service for Replaced with Guidance Note 7
SABRIC member banks to establish and verify the identity of a client in
terms of the FIC Act.
PCC34 Facilitation of reporting to the FIC for institutions from 8 March to 22 Replaced with Guidance Notes 4C, 5B
April 2016 and 6A
PCC35 Failure of the control, processes and working methods of an Replaced with Guidance Note 7
accountable institution in relation to formulation and implementation of
internal rules in terms of Section 42 of the FIC Act.
Reference Guide for all accountable institutions
Page 18 of 25

Number Topic Link to access
PCC36 Obligations arising from the FIC Act pertaining to the 2016 Special Link
Voluntary Disclosure Programme
PCC37 Obligations of reporting institutions in terms of the FIC Act. Link
PCC 38A The mode of communication regarding sections 27, 32, 34 and 35 of Link
the FIC Act.
PCC 39 To mandated entities in relation to access by authorised officers to Link
information held by the Financial Intelligence Centre
(07 August 2018)
PCC 40 Licensing, registration, approval or authorisation conditions issued by Link
supervisory bodies to accountable institutions,
(05 February 2019)
PCC 41 Guidance on combating the financing of terrorism and anti-money Link
laundering measures relating to non-profit organisations
(20 December 2019)
PCC 42 Guidance on the disclosure of facts or information contained in section Link
29 reports, or providing a copy of such a report to a supervisory body
(28 February 2020)
in terms of section 29(3) and section 45(b)(2b) of the Financial
Intelligence Centre Act, 2001 (Act 38 of 2001)
PCC 43 Guidance on customer due diligence in relation to shared clients of Link
accountable institutions
(27 February 2020)
PCC 44 Guidance on the application of the targeted financial sanctions regime Link
within South Africa
(20 March 2020)
PCC 45 Guidance on Directive 5 of 2019 in relation to the use of automated Link
transaction monitoring systems
(20 March 2020)
Reference Guide for all accountable institutions
Page 19 of 25

Number Topic Link to access
PCC 46 Guidance on the commencement and enforcement of the Financial Link
Intelligence Centre Act, 2001 (Act 38 of 2001) as amended by the
(30 March 2020)
Financial Intelligence Centre Amendment Act, 2017 (Act 1 of 2017)
PCC 47 Guidance on the interpretation of item 1 of Schedule 1 to the Financial Link
Intelligence Centre Act, 2001 (Act 38 of 2001)
(25 March 2020)
PCC 48 Guidance on certain life insurance business issues including customer Link
due diligence and understanding of risk in relation to their client in terms
(21 July 2020)
of the FIC Act.
PCC49 Guidance on money laundering, terrorist financing risk and proliferation Link
financing considerations relating to geographic areas
(29 March 2021)
PCC 50 Guidance on the measures required for the mitigation of loss of Link
intelligence data due to reporting failures
(31 March 2021)
PCC 51 Guidance on measures relating to foreign prominent public officials and Link
domestic prominent influential persons, their immediate family
(3 December 2022)
members and known close associates.
PCC 52 Guidance on the identification of money laundering and terrorist Link
financing risks and associated customer due diligence for clients of
(25 March 2022)
authorised users of an exchange in terms of the FIC Act.
PCC 53 Guidance on the RMCP for DNFBPs Link
(August 2022)
PCC 54 Guidance on the combatting of proliferation financing. Raising of risk Link
awareness regarding proliferation financing.
(30 September 2022)
Reference Guide for all accountable institutions
Page 20 of 25

Number Topic Link to access
PCC 56 Guidance to property practitioners on which persons are regarded as Link
estate agents for purposes of the schedule 1 to the FIC Act.
(14 November 2022)
PCC 22A Guidance on information processing in terms of the FIC Act in relation Link
to the Protection of Personal Information Act 2013 (Act 4 of 2013)
(30 November 2022)
Table 4: Guidance Notes issued by the Centre
Risk assessments conducted by the Centre
An aspect of the risk-based approach is for the institutions to be able to identify and assess the ML/TF/PF risks they face. The first
step in this process is to determine the risk at a national and sectoral level for the industry that the institution is situated in.
The Centre has identified the inherent ML risks and vulnerabilities facing seven sectors in South Africa, at a national level and a sectoral
level. The national risk assessment is currently in process, while the several sector risk assessments are available on the Centre’s
website.
Risk title Short description Link to access
South African National Terrorism Financing The assessment identifies the terrorism financing risks and Link
Risk Assessment vulnerabilities currently facing South Africa.
(12 April 2022)
Gambling sector This assessment identifies the inherent money laundering and Link
(31 March 2022) terrorist financing risks currently facing the gambling sector in
South Africa.
Reference Guide for all accountable institutions
Page 21 of 25

Motor vehicle dealers’ sector This assessment identifies the inherent money laundering and Link
(31 March 2022) terrorist financing risks currently facing the motor vehicle
dealers’ sector in South Africa.
Lender of money against the security of This assessment identifies the inherent money laundering and Link
securities sector terrorist financing risks currently facing the lender of money
(31 March 2022) against the security of securities sector in South Africa.
Trust services providers’ sector This assessment identifies the inherent money laundering and Link
(31 March 2022) terrorist financing risks currently facing the trust services
providers’ sector in South Africa.
Real estate sector This assessment identifies the inherent money laundering and Link
(17 March 2022) terrorist financing risks currently facing the real estate sector in
South Africa.
Kruger rand dealers This assessment identifies the inherent money laundering and Link
(17 March 2022) terrorist financing risks currently facing the Kruger rand dealers
sector in South Africa.
Legal practitioners This assessment identifies the inherent money laundering and Link
(17 March 2022) terrorist financing risks currently facing the legal practitioners
sector in South Africa.
Table 5 Sector Risk Assessments issued by the Centre
Reference Guide for all accountable institutions
Page 22 of 25

Below is a summary of various sections in the FIC Act, and associated regulations and penalties for non-compliance.
Directives, guidance notes and
Compliance duty Section Regulations Administrative sanction Criminal sanction
PCCs
20A, 21, Natural person = R10 million
Customer due
21A to N/A GN 7 N/A
diligence
21H Legal person = R50 million
Natural person = R10 million N/A
22, 22A
Record-keeping 20 GN 7
23 & 24
Legal person = R50 million
22, 22B &
CTR 28 GN 5C Natural person = R10 million 15 years
22C, 24
Dir 3
22, 22A, 23B,
Reporting TPR 28A GN 6A Legal person = R50 million or
23C, 24
Dir 5
22, 23, 23A, R100 million
STR 29 GN 4B N/A
24
Risk management Natural person = R10 million
and compliance 42 N/A GN 7 N/A
programme Legal person = R50 million
Natural person = R10 million
Training 43 N/A GN 7 N/A
Legal person = R50 million
Natural person = R10 million
Governance of AML
42A N/A GN 7 N/A
and CFT
Legal person = R50 million
Natural person = R10 million
Registration 43B 27A Dir 2, PCC 5D N/A
Legal person = R50 million
Table 6 Summary of sections, regulations and associated guidance
Reference Guide for all accountable institutions
Page 23 of 25

Case studies
The Centre publishes on their website identified cases of criminals using different types of
crimes to accumulate or gather their proceeds. The Centre publishes case studies and
indicators to raise awareness on some of the methods criminals use. The page for this can
be accessed here.
Scams awareness
The Centre publishes samples of some of the notices and messages that scammers send to
the public. If you think you may have been the subject of a scam, please access the scam
awareness page here.
The Centre also publishes scams awareness provided my money remitters. This page can
be accessed here.
Financial Action Task Force Guidance
The Financial Action Task Force (FATF) is an intergovernmental standard setting body for
AML/CFT. The FATF standards include 40 Recommendations that all its member countries
and members of FATF Style Regional Bodies (FSRBs) need to comply with. Members
conduct peer reviews – that is, members assess other members’ adherence to the
Recommendations. South Africa was recently assessed, and the mutual evaluation report
following this assessment was published in October 2021.
FATF also issues guidance to its member countries through its publications. FATF guidance
is not directly binding on accountable institutions in South Africa, as the country needs to
consider and apply their own economic characteristics. However, FATF guidance principles
are highly informative and useful.

19. COMMUNICATION WITH THE CENTRE
The Centre has a dedicated compliance contact centre geared to assist accountable
institutions to understand their registration obligations in terms of the FIC Act. Please call the
compliance contact centre on 012 641 6000 and select option 1.
Compliance queries may also be submitted online by clicking on:
http://www.fic.gov.za/ContactUs/Pages/ComplianceQueries.aspx or visiting the Centre’s
website and submitting an online compliance query.
To submit an online compliance query:
• Go to the Centre’s website, www.fic.gov.za.
• Select “Contact the FIC” banner in the middle of the webpage.
• Select “Log a compliance query.” using the drop-down list.
• Complete the information requested in as much detail as you can. The more
detailed the query the easier it is for the Centre to provide a response.
Issued By:
The Director
Financial Intelligence Centre
15 December 2022
Reference Guide for all accountable institutions
Page 25 of 25