goAML EE V5.4
CASH THRESHOLD REPORT
USER GUIDE
7 August 2025

CONTENTS
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY .......................................................................................... 3
2. OBJECTIVE OF THIS USER GUIDE ....................................................................... 3
3. DEFINITIONS ........................................................................................................... 4
4. INTRODUCTION ...................................................................................................... 5
5. goAML WEB ICONS ................................................................................................ 6
7. ACCESSING GOAML ............................................................................................ 16
8. goAML PLATFORM LANDING PAGE .................................................................. 18
9. CAPTURING A CASH THRESHOLD REPORT .................................................... 18
10. SUBMITTING A CASH THRESHOLD REPORT TO THE FIC ........................... 30
goAML EE Upgrade V5.4_Cash Threshold Report User Guide | Version 1.4, 7 August 2025
Page 2 of 30

1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
This document outlines the enhancements introduced with the goAML V5.4 system
upgrade reflecting the recent system enhancements and new features introduced. The
upgrade is necessary as the supplier of the platform, the United Nations Office on Drugs
and Crime (UNODC) will only be able to provide support on their upgraded system and
not the older version that the FIC is currently using. This transition is essential to ensure
continued technical support and system reliability. Version 5.4 introduces several
enhancements aimed at improving user experience and system functionality. These
include an updated user interface with a new look and feel, replacement of certain free
text fields with dropdown menus to enhance data consistency, and optimisation of
dropdown lists for greater efficiency. These improvements are expected to streamline
operations and align the system with current support standards
2. OBJECTIVE OF THIS USER GUIDE
The objective of this user guide is to define and outline the steps to be followed when an
accountable institution submits a Cash Threshold Report (CTR) to the Financial
Intelligence Centre (the FIC) in terms of section 28 of the Financial Intelligence Centre
Act, 2001 (Act 38 of 2001) (FIC Act). Please note that the reporter must be registered
with the FIC in order to access the FIC’s registration and reporting platform. To register,
accountable institutions can refer to public compliance communication (PCC) 05D
(PCC05D) for further guidance. This user guide is applicable to:
• Accountable institutions listed in Schedule 1 to the FIC Act
This user guide is not issued in terms of section 4(c) of the FIC Act and is therefore not
formal guidance issued by the FIC.
Access to the registration platform
In order to submit a TFAR to the FIC, the accountable institution must access the
registration and reporting platform provided by the FIC for this purpose on the FIC’s
website at www.fic.gov.za
goAML EE Upgrade V5.4_Cash Threshold Report User Guide | Version 1.4, 7 August 2025
Page 3 of 30

3. DEFINITIONS
Administrator/ Refers to the Compliance Officer and Money Laundering Reporting
CO/ MLRO Officer obliged to register and submit a report on behalf of the
entity.
Authorised Refers to authorised dealers in foreign exchange (Item 19 of
dealers Schedule 1 to the FIC Act).
Authorised Refers to authorised dealers in foreign exchange with limited
dealers with authority (Item 19 of Schedule 1 to the FIC Act).
limited authority
Business Refers to an organisation, institution, or entity (ies) and can be used
interchangeably.
Financial Refers to the Financial Intelligence Centre Act, 2001 (Act No 38 of
Intelligence 2001).
Centre Act
Financial Service Refers to the entities authorised under the Financial Advisory and
Providers Intermediary Services (FAIS) Act to offer financial advice or
intermediary services.
In terms of regulatory compliance:
All FSPs are subject to the provisions of the FAIS Act.
FSPs are listed as accountable institutions under Schedule 1, Item
12 of the Financial Intelligence Centre Act (FIC Act). Only a specific
subset of FSPs, those involved in cross-border financial
transactions, have a direct reporting dispensation under the
Exchange Control Regulations.
goAML Refers to the integrated software solution implemented by the FIC
as its preferred ICT platform for registration, reporting, data
collection, analysis, case management and secure
communications required for the FIC’s daily operational functions
and requirements.
Individual Refers to a natural person who acquires user credentials in order
reporter to file a report in terms of Section 29 of the FIC Act in their own
personal capacity.
My Client Client of the accountable institution
Not My Client Not the Client of the accountable institution
goAML EE Upgrade V5.4_Cash Threshold Report User Guide | Version 1.4, 7 August 2025
Page 4 of 30

Party type Refers to the source and destination party in relation to the report
(Cash Threshold) being reported to the FIC.
Postbank Refers to Item 14 of Schedule 1 to the Financial Intelligence Centre
Act, 2001 (Act 38 of 2001) (FIC Act).
Regulations Refer to the Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Control
Regulations made in terms of section 77 of the FIC Act and
promulgated in Government Notice 1595 of 20 December 2002 as
amended.
Important information to remember when reporting on the FIC’s reporting
platform:
1. Please refer to the registration guideline for accountable institutions and
PCC05D for registration-related information.
2. It is mandatory on the goAML system, that all fields marked with an asterisk (*),
be completed.
3. All first letters must be capitalised.
4. All fields on the regulatory report, that are not obtained during the course of
establishing a particular person’s identity or conducting a particular transaction,
but should be obtained as part of commercial practice, should be completed with
as much of the information as readily available. In an instance where the
reporting institution does not have information readily available, they are to
populate mandatory fields with “not obtained”.
5. The FIC does not accept any regulatory reports submitted unless if it was
submitted on the goAML system. Regulatory reports must accordingly be
submitted in the prescribed format and timeframes. Failure to submit regulatory
reports within the prescribed timeframes constitutes a finding of non-compliance
in terms of the Financial Intelligence, 2001 (Act 38 of 2001) (FIC Act).
4. INTRODUCTION
Accountable institutions have an obligation to submit cash threshold reports to the FIC in
terms of section 28 of the Financial Intelligence Centre Act, 2001 (Act 38 of 2001) (FIC
Act) and must utilise the goAML platform to do so.
goAML EE Upgrade V5.4_Cash Threshold Report User Guide | Version 1.4, 7 August 2025
Page 5 of 30

The obligation to report in terms of section 28 of the FIC Act arises when a transaction is
concluded in cash and that transaction amount exceeds the prescribed threshold of R49
999, 99, in the following instances:
• is paid by the accountable institution to the client, or to a person acting on behalf of
the client, or to a person on whose behalf the client is acting; or
• is received by the accountable institution from the client, or from a person acting on
behalf of the client, or to a person on whose behalf the client is acting
Cash is defined in Section 1 of the FIC Act as:
coin and paper money of the Republic or of another country that is designated as legal
tender and that circulates as, and is customarily used and accepted as, a medium of
exchange in the country of issue, and travellers’ cheques.
The goAML platform may be accessed via the FIC website, www.fic.gov.za under the
“Register or Report” functionality.
5. goAML WEB ICONS
Icons Description
Cancel - Directs the
system to disregard the
entered details and not
save them
Preview - Verify content
before taking action e.g
downloading or approving
Print - To produce
physical copies of digital
content
Print Single Page - This
focuses on printing only
the currently viewed page
Export PDF – Export the
data into PDF format
Refresh - update or
reload the content on a
screen
Delete – Delete the
uploaded document
goAML EE Upgrade V5.4_Cash Threshold Report User Guide | Version 1.4, 7 August 2025
Page 6 of 30

Add File Attachment –
Allows users to upload or
link a file to a form
Save - Allows users to
save the captured report
details
Submit – Submit the
captured details of the
report
Shows the number of
attached documents
Upload XML and web
reports
Access drafted and
submitted reports
View submitted reports
Access mail messages
on goAML
Change password and
user details
Access statistics
Logout of goAML
goAML EE Upgrade V5.4_Cash Threshold Report User Guide | Version 1.4, 7 August 2025
Page 7 of 30

6. CASH THRESHOLD REPORT BASELINE SCENARIO
The process flow diagram below demonstrates the end-to-end process for uploading a
CTR. This diagram is given in greater detail in the content below. Fields in the flow
diagram are labelled A to G.
Example used for this process flow:
Baseline scenario refers to how a CTR should be uploaded for a cash withdrawal of
R50 000 at Bank A, branch Y on the goAML platform 3.1 Field Definitions
• Report type (A) – The type of report (i.e. CTR)
• Reporting Person and Location (B)
o Reporting Person - Linked to the logged in user details, this is the person
uploading the CTR. The Reporting person’s information are hidden from view
o Location - Describes the actual geographical area / branch where the transaction
or series of transactions occurred. The address of the logged in user is populated
in the selected report for capturing. The logged in user must edit or delete the
address, if the populated address is not the actual location of where the
transaction (series of transactions) occurred.
• Indicators (C) – Indicators are used to specify the nature or type of report that the
institution is submitting to the FIC. The institution is required to review the list of
predetermined indicators and select the most appropriate explanation(s).
• Transactions (D) - Transaction refers to a transaction concluded between a client
and an accountable institution or reporting institution in accordance with the type of
business carried on by that institution. In the event of a series of transactions, each
transaction needs to be listed separately on the CTR form.
• From Type / To Type (E) –This indicates where the funds originated (From), and to
where the funds were placed (To). Both fields are required to be completed
• My client / Not my client and Conductor (F) – Denotes if the ‘From/ To’ type
selected, is the institution’s client, or not the institution’s client. i.e. The person/entity
who paid the cash is not the client of the institution, and the person/entity receiving
the cash is the client of the institution
• Person / Entity / Account (G)
o Person - Refers to a natural person. If a person physically receives or pays cash,
‘person’ is selected
goAML EE Upgrade V5.4_Cash Threshold Report User Guide | Version 1.4, 7 August 2025
Page 8 of 30

o Entity- Refers to a legal person. Note that there is a natural person that will always
be linked to an entity (i.e. the director). If an entity physically receives or pays cash,
‘entity’ is selected
o Account - Refers to an account held with an accountable institution (e.g. Cheque
account held with a bank) Note that there is a natural person that will always be
linked to an account (i.e. the signatory) and there may be a legal person (including
at least one director) linked to an account. When cash is deposited or withdrawn
To/From an account, then ‘account’ will be selected
• Mandatory Fields (H) – Refers to the fields that are compulsory to be completed.
The information that is required is dependent on the fields selected in field G (i.e.
Person / Entity / Account).
6.1 Baseline scenario for submitting cash threshold reports to the FIC –
displaying fields A-G to be completed
goAML EE Upgrade V5.4_Cash Threshold Report User Guide | Version 1.4, 7 August 2025
Page 9 of 30

6.2 Baseline scenario example for submitting cash threshold reports to the FIC
6.3 Baseline scenario example for submitting cash threshold reports to the FIC
goAML EE Upgrade V5.4_Cash Threshold Report User Guide | Version 1.4, 7 August 2025
Page 10 of 30

6.4 Baseline scenario example for submitting cash threshold reports to the FIC
6.5 Baseline scenario example for submitting cash threshold reports to the FIC
goAML EE Upgrade V5.4_Cash Threshold Report User Guide | Version 1.4, 7 August 2025
Page 11 of 30

6.6 Baseline scenario example for submitting cash threshold reports to the FIC
6.7 Baseline scenario example for submitting cash threshold reports to the FIC
goAML EE Upgrade V5.4_Cash Threshold Report User Guide | Version 1.4, 7 August 2025
Page 12 of 30

6.8 Baseline scenario example for submitting cash threshold reports to the FIC
6.9 Baseline scenario example for submitting cash threshold reports to the FIC
goAML EE Upgrade V5.4_Cash Threshold Report User Guide | Version 1.4, 7 August 2025
Page 13 of 30

6.10 Baseline scenario example for submitting cash threshold reports to the FIC
6.11 Baseline scenario example for submitting cash threshold reports to the FIC
goAML EE Upgrade V5.4_Cash Threshold Report User Guide | Version 1.4, 7 August 2025
Page 14 of 30

6.12 Baseline scenario example for submitting cash threshold reports to the FIC
6.13 Baseline scenario example for submitting cash threshold reports to the FIC
goAML EE Upgrade V5.4_Cash Threshold Report User Guide | Version 1.4, 7 August 2025
Page 15 of 30

7. ACCESSING GOAML
Accountable institutions can access the goAML platform by utilising the username and
password captured during the registration process. Authentication will always be required
before gaining access to goAML.
Access goAML EE page by clicking the link: https://goweb.fic.gov.za/goAMLWeb_PRD.
• Click on the Login button
• Enter your username in the standard format captured during registration
Authenticating with two factor authentication
• Step 1: Download the Microsoft / Google Authenticator application on your mobile
device
• Step 2: Click on goAML login page
• Step 3: Enter your username and password in the standard format captured during
registration and click ‘LOGIN’.
Login Window
Figure 1: Login page
A QR code authentication page will be displayed as shown in figure 2 below.
goAML EE Upgrade V5.4_Cash Threshold Report User Guide | Version 1.4, 7 August 2025
Page 16 of 30

Figure 2: QR Authentication page
• Step 4 (Option 1): Open the authenticator app on your mobile device and scan the
QR code
• Step 5: Enter the time-based code displayed from the goAML shortcut in the code
field
• (Option 2): Or use fallback authentication:
• Click on ‘Use Fall back authentication’ option in figure 2 to receive a code via e-
mail, enter the code and login. Please note that the code remains valid for five
minutes. Once the time elapses, select ‘Use fallback authentication’ to generate a
new code.
Figure 3: Authentication screen
goAML EE Upgrade V5.4_Cash Threshold Report User Guide | Version 1.4, 7 August 2025
Page 17 of 30

8. goAML PLATFORM LANDING PAGE
Figure 4: goAML landing page
The landing page has the following visible items
• Menu Bar - Contains New Reports / Submitted Reports / Message Board / Statistics
/ Admin / Help. Clicking any of the link items will give a user access to the functionality
required. ( a)
• Logged in user details - Displays the details of the authenticated user e.g. username
and associated entity name. The user profile allows you to change Password, My User
Details, My Org Details and Logout as a user. (b, c)
• Information Bar - Contains the FIC information with links to download goAML
documentation. (d)
BASELINE SCENARIO FIELD A – REPORT TYPE
9. CAPTURING A CASH THRESHOLD REPORT
To capture a CTR, select New Reports in the menu bar, and click on Web Reports
Figure 5: goAML menu bar
The types of report selection will display all the report types. Select Cash Threshold
Report (CTR) and click ‘Create Report’ button as shown below in figure 6. Each report
contains distinct fields, for example, transactional reports will have different fields
compared to activity reports.
goAML EE Upgrade V5.4_Cash Threshold Report User Guide | Version 1.4, 7 August 2025
Page 18 of 30

Figure 6: Report type selection interface
After selection, the Cash Threshold Report window will populate with the following fields:
9.1 Report headers
Figure 7: Cash Threshold Report
Click on each tab on the left to complete its section. When all sections are completed, the
red indicator bar will turn green, allowing user to submit the registration form.
BASELINE SCENARIO FIELD B – REPORTING PERSON AND LOCATION
9.1.1 Reporting Person
The Reporting Person’s details are linked to the current logged-in user’s details
• Reporting entity branch: Branch that is submitting the report to the FIC
• Reporting entity reference: A unique code or identifier for the reporting entity
• Report Date: Automatically generated with the (current) date that the report has been
submitted
• FIC Ref Number: This field is for resubmitting/ remediating previously failed reports
and needs to reference the original report number issued by the FIC
goAML EE Upgrade V5.4_Cash Threshold Report User Guide | Version 1.4, 7 August 2025
Page 19 of 30

• Previously Rejected Report Ref Number: This field is for resubmitting/ remediating
previously rejected reports and needs to reference the original report number issued
by the FIC.
9.1.2 Location
Refers to the physical address of the reporting entity (e.g., branch or office) / person
submitting the report.
Editing the location
The address of the logged in user is populated in the selected report for capturing. The
logged in user must edit or delete the address, if the populated address is not the actual
location of the reporting entity/individual.
Figure 8: Location screen
The user can delete the address details by clicking the delete icon in figure 8 and then
enter the reporting individual’s current location at the time of reporting.
• House Number: Specifies the numeric or alphanumeric identifier assigned to a
building within a street or complex. This field helps pinpoint the exact location of the
property where the reporting entity/individual is situated.
• Apartment Number: Indicates the specific unit or flat within a multi-unit building
associated with the reporting entity/individual. This is essential for identifying the
precise sub-location within a larger property.
• Address: Represents the full physical location of the reporting entity/individual. This
may include street name, house number, apartment number, and other relevant
details.
• Address 1: Primary line of the address, including the street name and house number.
• Address 2: Secondary line of the address, used for additional location details such as
building name, floor number, or complex name.
• Type: Defines the category of the address provided. It may refer to a business,
physical, postal, or private address.
• Town: Specifies the town or municipality of the reporting entity/individual.
goAML EE Upgrade V5.4_Cash Threshold Report User Guide | Version 1.4, 7 August 2025
Page 20 of 30

• City / Zip: Indicates the city and corresponding postal code relevant to the reporting
entity/individual.
9.2 Attachments
This section allows the user to upload supporting documents related to the report. While
document attachment is available, it is not mandatory.
Figure 9: Attachments screen
To upload a document: Click the ‘add’ icon , then choose the appropriate document
category from the dropdown menu. Complete the identification and description fields,
select the files you wish to attach from their location, and click ‘open’ to upload.
The document will be attached under the ‘Attachments’ tab.
BASELINE SCENARIO FIELD C – INDICATORS
9.3 Indicators
Report indicators classify the type of report being submitted.
Figure 10: Indicators screen
goAML EE Upgrade V5.4_Cash Threshold Report User Guide | Version 1.4, 7 August 2025
Page 21 of 30

For the Cash Threshold Report (CTR), only one indicator is displayed. To apply the
indicator, tick the checkbox for the indicator applicable to the CTR report.
9.4 Transactions landing screen
Figure 11: Transactions landing screen
To add the parties involved in the transactions click the ‘Add BiParty’ icon as shown
in figure 11 above. The Transactions screen will load as shown below in figure 12.
BASELINE SCENARIO FIELD D – TRANSACTIONS
9.4.1 Transactions
Transactions means a transaction concluded between a client and an accountable
institution in accordance with the type of business carried on by that institution.
Figure 12: Transactions screen
Transactions form has the following fields:
• Number: Unique transaction number (e.g. bank transaction will be an Account
Number) / in an event of no transaction numbers being available, users can generate
a unique reference number from the system by clicking the icon
• Internal reference number: Reporting entity internal transaction reference number
• Transmode code: Indicate how the transaction was carried out by selecting the relevant
code from the drop-down list
• Local amount: The value of the transaction in local currency
• Date: This refers to the date of transaction
goAML EE Upgrade V5.4_Cash Threshold Report User Guide | Version 1.4, 7 August 2025
Page 22 of 30

• Late Deposit: This field is applicable in cases where the customer drops cash in a box
at a bank after the bank's working hours. In all such cases, the "Value Date" will be
different from transaction date as the bank will process this transaction the next day
• Teller: The teller who conducted the transaction. This is only applicable where a
transaction is conducted in-branch
• Authorised: The person who authorised the transaction
• Location: Refers to the branch or geographical area where the transaction occurred.
Please note that this free-text field is currently used to capture transaction location but
will be removed in future updates. Reporters are encouraged to start using the
structured address fields by clicking the Reporters are encouraged to start using the
structured address fields by clicking the “ ” icon next to Address to ensure accurate
and standardised location reporting
• Description: List additional information in relation to the transaction if available
To capture the details of the involved parties, click report parties (From party, Person My
Client). The Person My Client form will populate. Complete the Person details as shown
in figure 13 below.
BASELINE SCENARIO FIELD E – FROM TYPE / TO TYPE
9.4.2 From type ‘Person My Client’ Form
Transactional reports on goAML are structured as bi-party transactions with a ‘From’ and
‘To’ part to every transaction. A transaction report will always have a ‘From’ (Payee) and
‘To’ (Receiver) side which will need to be completed by the reporter.
goAML EE Upgrade V5.4_Cash Threshold Report User Guide | Version 1.4, 7 August 2025
Page 23 of 30

Figure 13: Person My Client form
• All fields marked with an asterisk (*) needs to be completed
• Click on use existing person icon to quickly select a previously saved person’s
details
• Clicking on delete icon , will delete all captured person details in the current
form
• Click append icon to open additional fields and enter any further transaction-
related information that may be required.
The Person “My Client” form has the following fields:
• First name: A legal name as reflecting in the identification document
• Surname/Last name: A legal surname as reflecting in the identification document
• Middle name: This is the name that appears between a person's first name and last
name.
• Birth date: Date of birth/ can be typed in from calendar in ccyy/mm/dd format (e.g.
1999/02/25)
• RSA ID: 13-digit South African ID Number (e.g. 9902251109876)
• RSA passport number: South African passport number
• Nationality 1: Refers to the first nationality in cases where an individual holds multiple
nationalities. It may or may not be the same as the primary nationality.
• Nationality 2: Refers to an additional nationality for individuals who are legally
recognised as citizens of more than one country
• Country of origin: The country in which a person is deemed to have originated
goAML EE Upgrade V5.4_Cash Threshold Report User Guide | Version 1.4, 7 August 2025
Page 24 of 30

• Residence: Refers to the current residence country of the person
• Occupation: This refers to the job title of the person
• Tax number: The tax number of the individual whose details are being captured
• Source of funds: Refers to the origin of the money used in a specific transaction
• Passport/Foreign ID/Permit/Refugee/Residence number: The identification number
that is associated with a non-South African natural person
• Issuing country: The country which issued the respective Passport/Foreign
ID/Permit/Residence number.
BASELINE SCENARIO FIELD F, G– MY CLIENT / NOT MY CLIENT AND
CONDUCTOR
9.4.3 To type ‘Entity Not My Client’ Form
The Entity Not My Client will populate the form to be completed as shown below in figure
14.
Figure 14: Entity Not My Client form
goAML EE Upgrade V5.4_Cash Threshold Report User Guide | Version 1.4, 7 August 2025
Page 25 of 30

• South Africa is pre-selected as the default country; users can update this field if the country
is not South Africa
• The form populates with a single required ‘funds code’ field, indicated by an asterisk (*)
• Click append icon to open additional fields and enter any further transaction-related
information that may be required
• An account could belong to an entity, and when capturing an entity as 'My Client', it is
mandatory to capture at least one director associated with the entity.
The “Entity Not My Client” has the following fields:
• Funds code: Type of funds used in initiating transaction (e.g., Cash)
• Funds comment: Description of the funds code
• Country: Country where the transaction was initiated
• Entity name: Name of the entity involved
• Registered name: The Registered name of the institution (CIPC)
• Incorporation Legal form: The legal form of the entity
• Business: Business area of the entity
• Incorp./Reg.Number: The registration number of the entity / company in the relevant
authority (e.g. Chamber of Commerce/ CIPC etc.)
• Incorporation date: Incorporation registration date in ccyy/mm/dd format
• Incorporation province/state: Name of the province/state involved
• Incorporation country code: Incorporation registration country code, select from a list
• Tax number: The entity tax number
• Comments: Any comments related to the transaction
• Business closed: Select the checkbox if the business is closed; leave it blank if the
business remains open
• Date closed: If entity is closed, specify the date of closure in ccyy/mm/dd format.
Capturing address fields
To enter address information associated with the transaction, select the append icon to
display additional address fields. The address form will populate as shown below in figure
15.
goAML EE Upgrade V5.4_Cash Threshold Report User Guide | Version 1.4, 7 August 2025
Page 26 of 30

Figure 15: Address form
The “Address” form has the following fields:
• House number: House number associated with the transaction
• Apartment number: Apartment number associated with the transaction
• Address 1: Refers to the location where the transaction occurred, if applicable. Provide
Address 1 only if the transaction took place at that address
• Address 2: Refers to the location where the transaction occurred, if applicable. Provide
Address 1 only if the transaction took place at that address
• Type: Refers to the type of address. Select the type of address from the list
• Address: Physical address associated with the transaction
• City: Name of the city associated with the transaction
• Postal/Zip: Postal code of the city
• Country: Name of the country associated with the transaction
• Province/State: Name of the province where the transaction occurred.
Capturing phone number fields
To enter phones information associated with the transaction, select the append icon to
display additional phone fields. The phone form will populate as shown below in figure
16.
Figure 16: Phones form
goAML EE Upgrade V5.4_Cash Threshold Report User Guide | Version 1.4, 7 August 2025
Page 27 of 30

The “phone number” form has the following fields:
• Contact type: Type of contact associated with the transaction.
• Comm.Type: The method of communication linked to the transaction
• Country prefix: Country prefix linked to the transaction
• Number: Contact number linked to the transaction
• Extension: Phone number extension linked to the transaction
• Comments: Any comments related to the transaction
9.4.4 From type Account My Client
Account my client will populate the form to be completed as shown below in figure 17.
Figure 17: Account form
• Details of related persons must be recorded when the account holder is a client
of the accountable institution
• Whenever the involved Account / Person / Entity is the client of the reporting
entity, more details may be demanded from the client, and the reporting entity
must have the information as part of the adherence to the “Know Your
Customer” (KYC) requirements of the FIC Act
• In the instance of an account of a minor both the details of the minor and
guardian authorised to transact on his/her behalf should be captured
• For an ‘account my client’, the account must have a signatory.
The “Account” form has the following fields:
• Funds code: Type of funds used in initiating transaction (e.g., Cash)
• Funds comment: Comments if funds code is known
goAML EE Upgrade V5.4_Cash Threshold Report User Guide | Version 1.4, 7 August 2025
Page 28 of 30

• Country: Country where the account is held
• Institution country: Country where an institution is based or registered.
• Account type: Type of account (e.g. Trust or Client)
• Account number: the bank Account number (for Non-Banking institutions the account
number can refer to the client number/profile number assigned by the institution)
• Account name: The official name associated with the account, used to identify the
account holder or entity
• Institution registration name: Name of the institution where account is held
• Branch code: Branch where the account is held
• Swift: Bank identifier code used to specify a particular bank
• Institution code: Institution identifier code if a Swift code is not available
• Status code: Account status when transaction was initiated (e.g. Active/Closed)
• Currency code: Currency the account is kept in
• Closed: Date account closed if applicable
• Balance: The account balance at the time of reporting
• Date of balance: Date of account balance
• Beneficiary comment: Any remarks or notes regarding the beneficiary
• Comments: Any other comments, if applicable
Related person form
Figure 18: Related person form
The “Related person” form has the following fields:
• Account relation role: The role of the person is in relation to the account
goAML EE Upgrade V5.4_Cash Threshold Report User Guide | Version 1.4, 7 August 2025
Page 29 of 30

• Comments: Any comments in respect of the related person
• Title: Title of the related person
• Gender: Gender of the related person
• First name: First name of the related person
• Surname/Last name: Surname/Last name of the related person
• Birthdate: Birth date of the related person
• RSA ID: RSA ID of the related person
• RSA passport number: RSA passport number of the related person
• Passport/Foreign ID/Permit/Residence number: Identification number from the related
person’s official non-South African document
• Issuing country: The country that issued the respective Passport/Foreign
ID/Permit/Residence number of the related person
• Occupation: The related person’s current occupation or job title
• Tax number: The related person’s South African Revenue Service (SARS) tax
reference number
• Source of funds: Specifies the origin of the funds used
10. SUBMITTING A CASH THRESHOLD REPORT TO THE FIC
Once all the required details have been provided, the bar on the left of the tabs will turn
green, to enable the user to submit the form as shown in figure 19.
Figure 19: Cash Threshold Report
Click on the submit report button. Once the form has been submitted, the pop-up screen
will display with the report reference number. The reference number is used for any report
related enquiries. A notification e-mail with the refence number will be sent to the user’s
e-mail address which was entered during the registration process.
goAML EE Upgrade V5.4_Cash Threshold Report User Guide | Version 1.4, 7 August 2025
Page 30 of 30